.. :changelog:

History
-------

0.6.4 (2013-08-21)
++++++++++++++++++

* Windows support officially added.
* Fix TemplateNotFound Exception on Windows (#37).

0.6.3 (2013-08-20)
++++++++++++++++++

* Fix copying of binary files in nested paths (#41), thanks to `@sloria`_.

.. _`@sloria`: https://github.com/sloria/

0.6.2 (2013-08-19)
++++++++++++++++++

* Depend on Jinja2>=2.4 instead of Jinja2==2.7.
* Fix errors on attempt to render binary files. Copy them over from the project
  template without rendering.
* Fix Python 2.6/2.7 `UnicodeDecodeError` when values containing Unicode chars
  are in `cookiecutter.json`.
* Set encoding in Python 3 `unicode_open()` to always be utf-8.

0.6.1 (2013-08-12)
++++++++++++++++++

* Improved project template finding. Now looks for the occurrence of `{{`,
  `cookiecutter`, and `}}` in a directory name.
* Fix help message for input_dir arg at command prompt.
* Minor edge cases found and corrected, as a result of improved test coverage.

0.6.0 (2013-08-08)
++++++++++++++++++

* Config is now in a single `cookiecutter.json` instead of in `json/`.
* When you create a project from a git repo template, Cookiecutter prompts
  you to enter custom values for the fields defined in `cookiecutter.json`.

0.5 (2013-07-28)
++++++++++++++++

* Friendlier, more simplified command line usage::

    # Create project from the cookiecutter-pypackage/ template
    $ cookiecutter cookiecutter-pypackage/
    
    # Create project from the cookiecutter-pypackage.git repo template
    $ cookiecutter https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter-pypackage.git

* Can now use Cookiecutter from Python as a package::

    from cookiecutter.main import cookiecutter
    
    # Create project from the cookiecutter-pypackage/ template
    cookiecutter('cookiecutter-pypackage/')

    # Create project from the cookiecutter-pypackage.git repo template
    cookiecutter('https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter-pypackage.git')

* Internal refactor to remove any code that changes the working directory.

0.4 (2013-07-22)
++++++++++++++++

* Only takes in one argument now: the input directory. The output directory
  is generated by rendering the name of the input directory.
* Output directory cannot be the same as input directory.

0.3 (2013-07-17)
++++++++++++++++

* Takes in command line args for the input and output directories.

0.2.1 (2013-07-17)
++++++++++++++++++

* Minor cleanup.

0.2 (2013-07-17)
++++++++++++++++

Bumped to "Development Status :: 3 - Alpha".

* Works with any type of text file.
* Directory names and filenames can be templated.

0.1.0 (2013-07-11)
++++++++++++++++++

* First release on PyPI.

Roadmap
-------

If something is not listed here, check the `issues under each milestone`_.

This is subject to change depending on the needs and contributions of the
community. Feedback on pull requests/issues affects the priority of items on
the roadmap.

Also, please be patient and keep in mind that this is a volunteer effort, and
that the review process takes time.

.. _`issues under each milestone`: https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter/issues/milestones

0.7.0 (2013-11-06)
++++++++++++++++++

* Your cloned cookiecutters are stored by default in your `~/.cookiecutters/`
  directory (or Windows equivalent). The location is configurable. (This is a
  major change from the pre-0.7.0 behavior, where cloned cookiecutters were
  deleted at the end of project generation.)
* Support for --checkout argument.
* Support for pre-generate and post-generate hooks, which are Python or shell
  scripts that run before and/or after your project is generated.

0.7.1
+++++

This is a patch release to fix minor bugs and any potential problems with 0.7.0.

* Various README enhancements.
* TODO

0.8.0
+++++

This release will include a number of features and bug fixes proposed and
implemented by the community in pull requests.

* TODO

0.9.0
+++++

This release is for new features proposed through issues. Note: some issues
tagged 0.9.0 might be moved to 0.8.0 if anyone implements them and submits a
pull request.

* Support for alternate config location as per XDG Base Directory Spec
* TODO
